ACTIONS IN COMBAT
When you take your action on your turn, you can take
one of the actions presented here, an action you gained
from your class or a special feature, or an action that
you improvise.

ATTACK
The most common action to take in combat is the Attack
action, whether you are swinging a sword, Iiring an
arrow fram a bow, or brawling with your fists.
With this action, you make one melee or ranged
attack. 
Certain features, such as the Extra Attack feature
of the Fighter, allow you to make more than one attack
with this action.

CAST A SPELL
Spellcasters such as wizards and clerics, as well as
many monsters, have access to spells and can use
them to great effect in combat. Each spell has a casting
time, which specifies whether the caster must use an
action, a reaction, minutes, or even hours to cast the
spell. Casting a spell is, therefore, not necessarily an
action. Most spells do have a casting time of 1 action,
so a spellcaster often uses his or her action in combat
to cast such a spell. See chapter 10 for the rules
on spellcasting.
DASH
When you take the Dash action, you gain extra
movement for the current turn. The increase equals
your speed, after applying any modifiers. With a speed
of 30 feet, for example, you can move up to 60 feet on your
turn if you dash.
Any increase or decrease to your speed changes this
additional movement by the same amount. If your speed
of 30 feet is reduced to 15 feet, for instance, you can
move up to 30 feel this turn if you dash.
DISENGAGE
If you take the Disengage action, your movement doesn't
provoke opportunity attacks for the rest of the turn.
DODGE
When you take the Dodge action, you focus entirely on
avoiding attacks. Until the start of your next turn, any
attack roll made against you has disadvantage if you
can see the attacker, and you make Dexterity saving
throws with advantage. Vou lose this benefit if you are
incapacitated (as explained in appendix A) or if your
speed drops to O.
HELP
Vou can lend your aid to another creature in the
completion of a task. When you take the Help action,
the creature you aid gains advantage on the next ability
check it makes to perform the task you are helping with,
provided that it makes the check before the start of
your next turn.
Alternatively, you can aid a friendly creature in
attacking a creature within 5 feet of you. Vou feint,
distract the target, or in some other way team up to
make your ally's attack more effective. If your ally
attacks the target before your next turn, the first attack
roll is made with advantage.
HIDE
When you take the Hide action, you make a Dexterity
(Stealth) check in an attempt to hide, following the rules
in chapter 7 for hiding. If you succeed, you gain certain
benefits, as described in the "Unseen Attackers and
Targets" section later in this chapter.
